# Queues-Management-Application

This is a queues management application, developed using Java Swing, which assigns clients to queues such that the waiting time is minimized.

Since nowadays time is the one resource that we all desperately need but never seem to have enough of, the necessity of preserving and saving time was the starting point of this project. One activity that everyone spends an unnecessarily extensive amount of time doing daily is waiting in queues, therefore having those extra minutes spent doing nothing but moving a few inches in a line could lead to great successes if only they were used to one's benefit. But the question is how can we win back these minutes that we've got so accustomed to losing on a daily basis? This project was designed with the thought of solving exactly this problem in mind.

The application simulates a series of N clients arriving for service, entering Q queues, waiting, being served and then finally leaving the queues. The clients are randomly generated when the simulation starts, and are characterized by three parameters: an ID (represented by a number between 1 and N), an arrival time (the simulation time at which they are ready to enter the queue), and a service time (the time interval or duration needed to serve the client). The program tracks the total time spent by each client in the queues and computes the average waiting time. A client is added to the queue with the minimum waiting time when their <b>arrival time >= the simulation time</b>.

In order to simulate this process, the project provides three input tests (of three different levels of complexity) that can be found in the form of three text files (`test1.in`, `test2.in`, `test3.in` - <i>go to the `Tests` section</i>) that will be run in order to observe the efficiency of the created system. An input test file contains the following data, each set of data being written on a different line: number of clients (N), number of queues (Q), simulation time (a number representing the maximum amount of seconds the simulation can last), minimum and maximum arrival time, minimum and maximum service time. Upon starting the program, the user will be prompted to enter a number from the interval [1, 3] in order to choose the desired test to run the simulation on. Once one of the tests has been selected, a new window will open and with its help, the user will be able to actually visualize the queue evolution in real time. At the end of the simulation, its results are also saved in a text file (also found in the <i>Tests</i> folder) so that the user can analyze the output in their own rhythm later if desired. The output file also logs other relevant information such as the average waiting time, average service time and the peak hour for the given simulation interval.

In the implementation of this project I used threads and synchronization mechanisms, details regarding which can be found in the documentation provided in the `doc` section.
